# Template: Linux by Prom

## Template ID
10285

## Description
This template collects Linux metrics from node_exporter 0.18 and above. Support for older node_exporter versions is provided as 'best effort'.

Setup:

1. Set up the node_exporter according to the official documentation:
https://prometheus.io/docs/guides/node-exporter/

Use node_exporter v0.18.0 or above.

2. Set the hostname or IP address of the node_exporter host in the '{$NODE_EXPORTER_HOST}' macro. You can also change the Prometheus endpoint port in the '{$NODE_EXPORTER_PORT}' macro if necessary.

Known Issues:

  - Node Exporter 0.16.0 renamed many metrics. CPU utilization for "guest" and "guest_nice" metrics are not supported in this template with Node Exporter < 0.16. Disk IO metrics are not supported. Other metrics provided as best effort. See https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter/releases/tag/v0.16.0 for details.
    - version: below 0.16.0
  - metric node_network_info with label 'device' cannot be found, so network discovery is not possible.
    - version: below 0.18

Notes on filesystem (FS) discovery:
  - The ext4/3/2 FS reserves space for privileged usage, typically set at 5% by default.
  - BTRFS allocates a default of 10% of the volume for its own needs.
  - To mitigate potential disasters, FS usage triggers are based on the maximum available space.
    - Utilization formula: 'pused = 100 - 100 * (available / total - free + available)'
  - The FS utilization chart, derived from graph prototypes, reflects FS reserved space as the difference between used and available space from the total volume.

You can discuss this template or leave feedback on our forum https://www.zabbix.com/forum/zabbix-suggestions-and-feedback/387225-discussion-thread-for-official-zabbix-template-for-linux

Generated by official Zabbix template tool "Templator"

## Linked Hosts
None

