# Template: YugabyteDB by HTTP

## Template ID
10610

## Description
This template is designed for the deployment of YugabyteDB monitoring by Zabbix via HTTP and doesn't require any external scripts.

To set up the template:

1. Set your account ID as a value of the {$YUGABYTEDB.ACCOUNT.ID} macro. The account ID is the unique identifier for your customer account in YugabyteDB Managed. You can access the account ID from your profile in the YugabyteDB Managed user interface. To get your account ID, log in to YugabyteDB Managed and click the user profile icon. 
See YugabyteDB documentation for instructions:
https://yugabyte.stoplight.io/docs/managed-apis/tvsjh28t5ivmw-getting-started#account-id

2. Set your project ID as a value of the {$YUGABYTEDB.PROJECT.ID} macro. The project ID is the unique identifier for a YugabyteDB Managed project. You can access the project ID from your profile in the YugabyteDB Managed user interface (along with the account ID). 
See YugabyteDB documentation for instructions:
https://yugabyte.stoplight.io/docs/managed-apis/tvsjh28t5ivmw-getting-started#project-id

3. Generate the API access token and specify it as a value of the {$YUGABYTEDB.ACCESS.TOKEN} macro. 
See YugabyteDB documentation for instructions:
https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-cloud/managed-automation/managed-apikeys/#create-an-api-key

NOTE: If needed, you can specify a HTTP proxy for the template to use by changing the value of the {$YUGABYTEDB.PROXY} user macro.

IMPORTANT! The value of the {$YUGABYTEDB.ACCESS.TOKEN} macro is stored as plain (not secret) text by default.  

Generated by official Zabbix template tool "Templator"

## Linked Hosts
None

