# Template: Proxmox VE by HTTP

## Template ID
10517

## Description
This template is designed for the effortless deployment of Proxmox VE monitoring by Zabbix via HTTP and doesn't require any external scripts.

Proxmox VE uses a REST like API. The concept is described in Resource Oriented Architecture (ROA).

Check the API documentation for details:
https://pve.proxmox.com/pve-docs/api-viewer/index.html

Setup:

1. Create an API token for the monitoring user. Important note: for security reasons, it is recommended to create a separate user (Datacenter - Permissions).

Please provide the necessary access levels for both the User and the Token:

* Check: ["perm","/",["Sys.Audit"]]
* Check: ["perm","/storage",["Datastore.Audit"]]
* Check: ["perm","/vms",["VM.Audit"]]

2. Copy the resulting Token ID and Secret into the host macros '{$PVE.TOKEN.ID}' and '{$PVE.TOKEN.SECRET}'.

3. Set the hostname or IP address of the Proxmox VE API host in the '{$PVE.URL.HOST}' macro. You can also change the API port in the '{$PVE.URL.PORT}' macro if necessary.

Generated by official Zabbix template tool "Templator"

## Linked Hosts
None

## Items

### Item: API service status
- **Description**: Get API service status.
- **Interval**: 5m
- **Data Type**: 3

### Item: Get cluster resources
- **Description**: Resources index.
- **Interval**: 5m
- **Data Type**: 4

### Item: Get cluster status
- **Description**: Get cluster status information.
- **Interval**: 5m
- **Data Type**: 4

